So you didn't take your father's footsteps and go into forestry then?
I would have actually, I was quite interesting, but there was a, I think my father was recommending
that there were too many people in the forest, too many managers in the forestry at the time,
and that there were lots of people after the war who kind of gone into the forestry after
kind of having roles in the army and things like that, because it was that kind of operation where
it I think suited those kind of military-minded people, I think.
The Forest Commission didn't always have a happy kind of relationship with third parties and things
like that, particularly the farmers, because the drive to get the land and to plant the land with
trees was so strong after the war, because kind of prior to the war, even though the Forest Commission
had been set up in 1919, it was its anniversary last year or centenary, it had to acquire the land.
It was only about 10% of the total timber kind of usage in the UK was coming from home soil,
90% of it was being imported, and even after the first, they realized there was a problem
after the First World War, because they chopped down every tree going pretty much in the First
World War, because the kind of wars apparently take a lot of timber, as well as kind of going
to rebuild things after them. And in the First World War, they needed wood for cordite, which was
kind of used in the shells in the psalm and things like that, it was a kind of a source material for
that. But even after 1919, when they said we're not going to do this again, we're not going to
get caught with a pants down, kind of having no way of having the timber we need to kind of
manage and save ourselves. And then within a couple of years, they had a plan to plant
millions and millions of acres, I can't remember if it was two or five million acres of trees
in the UK to get the resource back. But within a couple of years, some change of government,
and somebody said, well, that's costing us too much money. And they pulled it back. So by time
the Second World War came up, they still had about 10% of homegrown stuff, and they were still
importing 90%. And when the war, a lot of that was coming from Scandinavia, across the North Sea,
there was some from Africa, but bits of Asia, sorry, bits of Europe, but obviously Europe closed
down fairly quickly during the war for a source of anything. And once the U-boats and things like
that were out in the seas, then we couldn't really import wood readily from Scandinavia,
particularly when some of those countries were taken over by the Germans anyhow.
So they suddenly realized that during the war that this was a big problem. And once again,
they sat down and said, we mustn't do this again. So they had another plan to have a five million
acres of trees planted and got going on there. And that was the drive that my dad got onto,
I suppose, at the time, that the need for forgetting the trees planted. It was a policy
at the time. It was supposed to be an insurance policy, because they said, well, okay, we're not
supposed to have another war. But if we do, we're going to be in exactly the same position,
or even worse, because we chop down every available tree that's worth having at that time. And
obviously, once after the war, there was a massive rebuilding program. And even though
modern materials are coming through, timber is still used massively in any kind of building
program, be it industrial or domestic houses. So yeah, they got through that.
So yeah, a lot of the trees, when you look at them now, I'm not too sure if they're ideal for
the modern requirements. But the good thing to see is that there are sawmills and things like
that now locally. Whereas before, the nearest place for any timber in Wales to go was the pop
mills in Ellesmere Port from places, you know, miles away. But kind of the trees as well were
aimed at very much the pit props. A lot of the trees planted here, they wanted fast growing trees,
but they could keep the mining industry going, because that's what drove the steel industry and
all the rest of it. And at that time, they could see that that's what was needed was fast growing
timbers that would allow them to get back to a reserve of some timber at least,
letting that same stuff grow on. But it wouldn't necessarily be the timber you'd be growing now for
perhaps what modern demand is, I don't know. The thing I find is that the sheer amount of effort
and work that went into putting the trees where they are and to make them grow. And I know my
father used to have quite a bit of conflicts every now and again with the local farmers who
still had to shoot back into the forest to graze and things like that. Yeah, of course. And they,
a part of it, there are things like, for example, the cut to meat, they started to become
more appreciative of what the local farmers were saying. They were saying, oh, these forests, you
fence off all these lands. All it does is breed foxes that come out and take our
lambs and things like this. And you've got loads of little crows that keep going, what are you
doing about this? So they then kind of had programs to try and control it. And Joe Williams,
Lindsay Williams, his dad was the trapper. Right. I don't know. Yeah. But I suppose he was
responsible for keeping down the vermin and the foxes. Yeah. So there was lots of little things
like that going on. And when we were young as well, the RSA rally used to use the forestry roads.
They haven't done now for a number of years, but in places, if I still go around there now,
I can see the bends where the RSA rallies were coming around because the contour of the bends,
because when they made the road originally, they'd be graded and all the roads would be that shape.
But on the bends now, where you see it, there's a lovely camber on the bends. And that camber has
been made by when the RSA rallies used to go through, they threw all the gravel from one side
to the other side of the road. And you get a nice little little camber on the bends in place.